Linux

1. Boot Loader: Software to manage the booting process of a computer
2. Kernel: manages CPU memory core
3. init system: 
4. Daemons: Background services.
5. Graphical surver
6. Desktop environment
7. Apps

Linux distributions
1. Ubuntu
2. Debian

Linux is used cuz it is an opensource and is flexible.

 
Linux commands
 ls: list files and directories
cd: change the  active directory
sudo or su: change the current user to super/root user
mv: move a file or rename a file
rm: remove the files in a directory or the whole things 
re -r: remove contents of the directory and the directory as well
mkdir: create a directory in the current directory
chmod: change the file mode to r-read, w-write, x-execute
chown: changes the ownership  of the file/folder
cat: view contents of a file
echo: display text or a string to the standard output 
Clear: clears the terminal screen
apt-get: package manager to install, remove and upgrade software packages
history: displays previously used commands

Waterfall and Agile model
Goes in a sequence

1. Requirement analysis where the requirement is given by the client
2. System design
3. Implementation: coding
4. Verification: testing the app
5. Deployment
6. maintenance

Pros:
Easy, cost effective, suitable for small projects

Cons:
Risky and uncertain
Not for large
End product only at the end
not suitable for changing environments
difficult to make changes in the testing phase


Agile model
Similar to devops

Product backlog: might have infinite number of items we have to decide what to get this is for sprint planning. 

DASA
Devops agile skills association
Customer centric action
Create with end in mind
end to end reaponsibilty
cross funtional autonomus teams
Continuos improvement
automate anything u can

DEVOPS Tools
1. Sourcecode management: Track cahnges in a code in a repository. Git and Github

2. Software build: Gradle and Maven

3. Testing: Selenium, Junit, Appium

4. Integration: Jenkins and Bamboo

5. CMT and deplyment: Important stage. Codeship, AWS Codedeploy, Terraform, Ansible, Chef, Puppet

6. Monitoring: Ensures product funtions, detecting anomalies and negating their effects before they bother the consuemr
Nagios and splunk

7. Containerization: Form og operating system virtualization in which apps run. 
Docker Kubernetes


